Rules of Catan:

Resources:
There are 5 different types of resources that are available in Catan
Wood
Wheat
Sheep
Brick
Stone
You can use these resources to buy different items such as roads, settlements,
cities, and development cards.

Tiles:
Each tile has a different resources as shown by the design of the tile.
Each tile also has a roll as shown by the number on the tile.
Each tile also has 6 vertices and 6 edges.
When that number is rolled, players who have settlements on a vertex of the tile
receive the resource of the tile.

Settlement/City:
You can place settlements/cities on a vertex. That gives you access to each of the
(up to) three tiles that share that vertex. However, you cannot place settlements/cities
on two adjacent vertices. Settlements/cities, other than during set-up, also cannot
be placed without a road leading up to them.
Settlements give you 1 of the resource you rolled. They cost 1 sheep, 1 wood, 1 brick, and 1 wheat
Cities give you 2 of the resource you rolled. You can only place a city at a place
where a settlement already exists, replacing that settlement. Cities cost 2 wheat and 3 stone

Road:
You can place a road on an edge. This gives you access to an additional vertice
that you can place a settlement/city on, as well as an additional edge you can place
a road on. All roads need to be adjacent to either a settlement/city, or another road.
Roads cost 1 brick and 1 wood.

Development Cards:
Development cards are special cards that each have a different action associated with them.
Some are very simple, like getting a victory point, while others are more complex,
like moving the Robber. Each development card that you buy will detail its specific
operation. Development cards cost 1 sheep, 1 stone, and 1 wheat.

Robber:
The robber is located on the desert tile, AKA the one without any resources.
When a 7 is rolled, all player with 7 or more cards have to get rid of half
(rounding down) of their cards. The player who rolled a 7 then gets to move the robber.
Once the robber is moved to a new tile, the player who rolled it gets to steal
a random resource from any one player who has a settlement/city associated with
that tile. Furthermore, that tile is now unable to give resources when it is rolled
until the robber is moved off of it.

Set-Up:
Each player will get to place 2 settlements and 2 roads, alternating player after
each settlement and road.

Turn:
During your turn, you will roll 2 dice. Every player who has a settlement/city on
a tile with that number will receive that resource. Multiple tiles will have the
same number. After rolling, you will be asked if you want to buy, trade, or end turn.

Buying Something:
You can buy a settlement, city, road, or development card during your turn. You
will only be able to buy it if you have enough resources, and those resources will
then be removed from your "hand". If you buy a settlement, city, or road, you will
then be asked to place that structure on the board.

Trading:
There are two types of trading: exchanging resources and trading with other players.
If you want to exchange a resource, you automatically are able to trade 4 of any
given resource for 1 of any other resource. However, if you have a port, that number
can change. There are 9 ports located throughout the board, denoted with the ship
icon, with the 2 vertices next to it linked to that port. These ports give the player,
if they have a settlement/city a linked vertex, the ability to either trade 2
of a specific resource for 1 of any other resource, or 3 of anything for 1 of anything.
You can tell the type of ability you gain based on the port tile.
The other type of trading is with the other players. During this, you can list the
resources you want, as well as what you're willing to trade for them, and other
players will decide if they want to take you up on that trade (first come first served).

Ending the Game:
The game ends when a player gets 10 Victory Points.
You get:
1 Victory Point for every settlement
1 Victory Point for every road
2 Victory Points for every city
and additional other possible VPs through dev cards.


